>> Jason Pamental: So we'll look at
Proportion, again, a little bit.
This article, I mentioned this earlier.
When I wrote this,
it clearly struck a nerve.
This blog post on the Ted cast website,
at something like 30,000 or
40,000 views in three weeks,
I was far more popular than anything
I have ever written before or
sense, and it was really focused in
on this notion of how do you create
that modular scale across small screen
to large ones to maintain hierarchy.
Without compromising the user experience,
and
line wrap, and
what you can see on the screen.
And what I wanted to make
sure I was focusing in on,
was getting away from thinking about
this sort of print centric mindset of
what these proportions
always needed to be.
Bear in mind,
Robert Bringhurst wrote a book called,
The Elements of Typographic Style.
That's something of a Bible for designers
in the print world about proportion,
and sort of appropriate typography for
reading.
It really has to adapt.
You can't apply those same kind of rules,
when you look at things, so
if we did not adapt that proportion, this
is what that looks like when you don't
correct for font size, and headings, and
body copy, when you go down to a phone.
And I think you'll agree that that's not
a particularly good initial experience on
the right, so if that loads up,
and you get three lines of
the actual content that you came here to
read, that's not that great an experience.
But, if we use break points, and we design
things from a mobile first context and
move on up, all we did was just bring
the proportion of the headings down,
and look how much more
content we get on screen.
That's the only thing that we changed.
So when you have fewer elements visible,
you can be more subtle.
That's the main thing to grasp from this,
is on the small screen,
we can be far more subtle,
because there're fewer distractions.
When you get on to the large screen,
there's so much more going on.
That's why headings need to stand out so
much more.
Or if you think about
commercial media sites.
There's so many ads there.
You need all the help you can get
to find the heading for the page.
So this is what it looked like in my book.
This kind of laid everything out,
sort of the print norm, how that
translated to desktop design, different
size of desktop, tablets, phones.
And you can see body copy stays largely
the same, but the headings go from, maybe,
2M or twice the body copy on the phone
all the way up to three times body copy,
and it's a much larger distinction
when you get to that larger screen.
And so, this was sort of meant as
a starting point, and that's where I ended
up using on a lot of projects to just get
a feel for how things might move in scale.
It's gonna vary with typeface, because
they're all slightly different, and
it's gonna vary with the project, and how
the layout is on large and small screen.
Sometimes, you even want
a greater exaggeration.
You might have four or
five times the body copy for a really,
really big header,
it just really depends on the design,
but this does gives you
a framework to start with.